Now, let's have a look at game.h and game.cpp.
In game.h, we include the SDL_library,
the controller header, the renderer header , and the snake header.
We have methods for running the game.
This is basically calling the game loop to get started.
We have methods to get the score,
methods to get the size of the snake,
and then some private attributes,
we store a snake in the game,
an SDL_point for the food.
I remembered that SDL_point is just a struct that has integer x and y coordinates.
Then we have some code here,
which will provide us with random numbers,
which we use to place the food.
We'll talk about this in just a second.
Then we also have the score of the game which is initialized to zero,
a method to place food which we use after the snake has eaten the food,
and the game update method.
Now, let's have a look again at this random number generating code.
So the first part here is a standard random device called dev,
and this is a random number generator. Let's go look.
Standard random device is
a uniformly distributed integer random number generator
that produces non-deterministic random numbers.
This is basically used as a seed for a random_device.
So it says, the performance of
many implementations of random device degrade sharply once the entropy pool is exhausted.
For practical use, random_devices are generally only used to
seed a pseudorandom number generator such as MT19937.
That's actually how we're going to use it.
So we have a pseudorandom number generator,
an MT19937 called engine.
Let's go look at that.
So this MT19937 is a Mersenne Twister engine,
which is a random number engine based on the Mersenne Twister algorithm.
It produces high-quality unsigned integer random numbers.
So we use this dev to seed our engine and then the engine produces random numbers,
but we basically want random numbers for the x and y coordinates on the grid.
So we have a standard uniform distribution random_w and random_h.
We will initialize those
with the uniform distribution between zero in the grid_width and zero in the grid_height.
So in the class constructor for game here,
we initialize the snake with the grid_width and grid_height,
we initialize our engine with our seed,
and then we initialize
this uniform distribution to be
between zero in the grid_width and zero at the grid_height,
and we place food on the screen.
The next method in game.cpp.
So switched over to game.cpp from game.h.
But the next method in game.cpp is the game run.
This is the game loop that you should be familiar
with from a previous part of this lesson.
So to start, we have the title_timestamp SDL GetTicks.
We'll talk about what that's used for in a second.
Then we have a uint32 for frame_start and frame_end and uint32 for farme_duration.
We also keep frame_counts and Boolean which tells us if the game is running.
So while the game is running,
we record the start of the frame.
So this is the timestamp of the start of the frame,
and we have the core of the game loop here,
input, update, and render.
So we have our controller HandleInput.
We pass in the Boolean whether or not the game is running and the snake,
because we change the snake depending on the input.
Then we update the game.
Then we render the game with the snake and the food.
Then at the end of that,
we get the timestamp for the frame_end.
So basically, this is one frame of our video game.
There's the frame_start and the frame_end.
So in the next part of this code,
we increase the frame_count.
So we want to keep track of how long each loop through the input,
update, render cycle takes.
So the duration of this frame is the frame_end minus the frame_start.
Every one second or so we want to update the window title.
We don't want to update it every pass through
the game loop because that would be very resource intensive.
So we say, the frame_end minus the timestamp of the last time we updated the title.
So we set the title_timestamp here.
If the timestamp of the end of the frame minus the timestamp of
the title is bigger than or equal to 1,000 milliseconds or basically one second,
then we update the window title,
we reset the frame_count to zero.
So we update the window title with the number of frames per second and the score,
we reset the frame_count to zero,
and we set the timestamp of the last time we updated the window through the frame_end.
The last part of this game loop is the time control.
So if the duration of this frame,
the amount of time it took to do our input, update, and render loop,
if the amount of time that it took to do that is less than our target farme_duration,
so in other words, if the game is running too fast,
then we want to delay the game so that we have a consistent gameplay.
So we call SDL_Delay with the target farme_duration
minus this farme_duration and we delay before passing through the game loop again.
The next method in game.cpp is place food.
This is where we use those random numbers.
So we have a wire loop that is basically producing some random numbers.
It checks if those random numbers are in the location of the snake.
If those random numbers are not in the location of the snake,
then we set food.x equal that x and food.y equal to the y.
Otherwise, we pass through the random number again and we keep doing this.
So here we have our uniform distribution,
we pass in that Mersenne Twister pseudo-random number generator.
We get an x value and the same for y.
For game.update, we first check if the snake is alive.
If the snake is not alive,
we're done and we can return.
Otherwise, we call snake.update which is defined in the snake class and then we get
the new cell for the x-coordinate of
the snake head and the new cell for the y-coordinate of the snake head.
We check if the snake head is in the same cell as the food.
If the snake head isn't the same cell as the food then we increase our score.
We call place food,
which places a new food item in the game.
We'd tell the snake's body to grow because once the snake eats food, it's body grows.
In this case, to make the game a little bit more challenging,
we increase the snake speed just a little bit.
Then there are two methods down below,
game GetScore and GetSize,
which can be used by the window or other parts of the game.
We use these in main to return the score and the size of the snake.